The Joe Rogan experience.
Mental toughness is one of the most important aspects of wrestling.
Obviously technique and fitness are huge,
but mental toughness is what defines wrestlers in my opinion,
because when you see wrestler successful wrestlers in Mo in the
UFC in particular, it there's no one like them. When,
when they come over to MMA, you, you recognize like there's,
there's something special about them as athletes.
And I think that it comes from the fact that wrestling is so difficult that the
practices are so hard,
but in the world of mental toughness where mental toughness is one of the
cornerstones you're known as a guy that stands out,
like you stand out amongst like, like David Goggins likes to say,
you're uncommon amongst uncommon men. Like what, what is that like? What,
what, what made you stand out from these other wrestlers?
Well, I'm going to jump forth to my high school coach,
even though I got a lot before that, but always,
I just remember what he said in the room.
And he was like the best high school coach in the state at the time.
He said, guys win with humility,
lose with dignity, but don't lose.
And he put those last two lines together real quick.
So he kind of had listened to him,
but it was pretty neat because you win with humility, you lose with dignity,
but don't lose. And so, you know, it's it,
that was my first major coach that really taught me a lot of those type of
principles. But before that I was,
I was a kid that was at the YMCA when I was five, six years old. Uh,
and basically the reason why I was there because, you know,
you want to learn how to swim,
because if you're an outdoors guy and you want to be around water and you want
to want to make sure, you know, how your kids swim.
So my mom and dad got me into the YMCA,
but once they got me into the YMCAs really for was, they needed help.
I mean, they just, my dad was a full-time worker and my mom,
she stayed at home a lot, but she also helped my dad. He had an office at home,
but I was a little hellion and they needed me to learn how to swim,
but they also needed me to learn how to be a little bit sociable.
They needed me to learn how to, to, uh, uh, get along with kids. Uh,
my first job was at the YMCA. I actually competed my first sport. Uh,
competitively was besides practicing,
was swimming and I won a YMCA state championship when I was 12 years old.
Believe it or not in the backstroke, which, you know, in wrestling, you know,
I know in fighting,
you can go to your back and there's lots of tools that you can do there,
but I hate going to my back, you know, and I think if I was a fighter, I don't,
I would think I hate gravity coming down on me. So I don't mind putting it down,
but, you know, and there skills there, you have to learn. But I, um, I really,
um, I really liked, uh, uh,
the YMCA because it gave me a chance to learn something
away from home.
I was home with my mom was home with my dad home with my sister four years older
than me, but, you know, it's,
it's just something I call it going for help.
And I think my mom and dad realized at that time that they
needed some help with this kid.
And I think that's a really good thing to think about as,
as people in the world, when you have kids growing up in a few,
not giving them what you need to give them, why not go for help?
And there's organizations out there now,
you gotta be careful who you're putting them into,
or even if you're giving them to a babysitter or whatever like that. But,
you know, if you, if you're,
if you're pretty confident that you have a good place to get some help,
you get some help. And I, and I, as same way as me as a coach,
same way as me as a husband. I mean, I got my wife, I got my family,
I got, I had my assistant coaches and I, I got my fans. I mean,
I got, I always had them looking out for me.
I built a kind of trust with them, or more than even trust,
just they want to help. And that was the way now you can't go overboard.
You still got to make sure that the help you're getting is the right help.
But the YMC was perfect for me because, uh, I mean,
I can remember the first day, uh, they took us to a wrestling room.
We had a little wrestling room at the YMCA and I was already wrestling
before that because my dad was a wrestler, not a great wrestler,
but his friends were. So when they, when they came to the rustling,
learning to sport, that first wrestling room was at the YMCAs there,
even though I had been in a wrestling room because he's older guys had dragged
me around into the wrestling rooms, but in Waterloo,
but I can remember wrestling a kid and I,
I handled him pretty good because I had already been wrestling in my carpet at
home rustling outside in the grass. And, and these people had,
had had a little experience with me. So, but the kid kind of got mad.
So I was waiting for my mom and dad to, uh, uh, pick me up after the,
uh, the wa at the, after the wise couple hours where he'd be,
you spend there and this kid came out and he goes, you know, you can, you know,
maybe you beat me in wrestling up there, but he goes, uh,
how about a street fight? And I said, well, you know,
I was probably 8, 9, 8 years old at the time. And,
you know, was, was downtown Waterloo island, tough town.
I was on one side of the river and he was on the other side of the river, uh,
growing up. And,
and so he probably had been in more fights in me, but
I didn't, wasn't going to really, I wasn't going to fight him.
I was waiting for my dad, picked me up. And all of a sudden he,
he punches me. And so, you know,
what do you do? You gotta fight. I mean, he's gotta a run, you know? And I,
I fought and I did all right. I mean, just like in the wrestling room I did.
All right. And so I was, I had, I had some of that in me too, but when I,
I had the guy on the down and I kind of let him up,
we both looked over,
my dad was there standing and watching me and that guy's dad was standing there
and my mom, my dad, and his were talking to each other. And so, you know,
that's part of an experience that you kind of grow up in and it's,
I don't know if they even knew each other,
but they were kind of supervising yet. We didn't know they were there.
And that was kind of one of my first experiences with, uh,
understanding a little bit about, uh,
competition outside the organized sports, you know, you have raw competition,
right? Yeah. Primal. Yeah. So, you know,
actually speaking of the story there, it was a really good one. Uh,
this is about my mom and dad, my mom and dad were great people,
but they like to drink a lot of beer and smoke a lot of cigarettes.
And that's why they probably didn't live so long.
And they probably had a lot of it had some trouble at home.
And by that, I mean,
the cops visited home quite often just to break up fights
or my mom would probably call the cops on my dad. And, uh,
so the first time I ever really took notice
was when they came the first time and they took my dad away
and, you know, he had been rough with my mom, so I probably understood,
but I saw him kind of, uh, throw a handcuff on him. He just,
I think they just threw one on and kind of took him out the door.
I didn't really see from there. So
he came home that night, later on, he got up, he was, did he just, you know,
I don't know, they, they brought him back later,
but so the next day I went to school and
the cop that had the policemen had come and picked him up was actually
a neighbor down the street, just lived about a block from us.
And I was really bad, you know, at the police taking my dad away,
even though probably it was a good tank,
but I didn't really understand what was going on at that time.
This and this is different today. Probably wouldn't go on. But
the neighbor policemen about a block away had a son in my class at
school. So after school, that day,
we were both walking home and I was really mad.
And I pull out of my pocket, a wire
and I took this kid down on the ground and I wired his
wrist together and not real hard,
but like there were handcuffs and I grabbed the wire and I said,
this is what your dad did to my dad last night. And I'm going to do it to you.
And I'm going to take you, and I'm going to take you home this way.
And I took him home because they lived about a block away and I,
and took the things off and let him go in. But
it's my puppy, fourth grade. But
my dad found out about that and wow, what did I get in trouble?
I mean, he, he used to hit me on top of the head with a ring,
probably why you don't have much hair, but, but, um, and, um,
and he looked at me and he said, you know what?
I was toxicant last night was good. They took me out of here,
but you know what they did to me, when I got me down to the police department,
he said, I played pool with him.
They had a little billiards room down there and they played pool with me until I
sobered up. And then they brought me back. And, uh, and you did that to his son.
I said, dad, I, I, I was just protecting you.
I thought, you know, but, and everybody understood,
but it's kind of funny how things are. And I don't think that's the old days.
Good old days, uh, compared to, I don't know,
they'd probably do a lot more, you know, they'd lock you up probably,
but I only give him too many breaks, but, uh,
it's kinda funny how that's kind of house, you know,
difference between 40 years ago, 50 years ago, 60 years ago.
I'm better though. The good are the good old days, the good old days.
I said it today. I think I liked the good old days. I mean,
I got picked up one other time and it was my, uh, former, um,
I was back home from college and, and he, um,
he was my gym teacher, Nate grade and, uh,
Mr. Mr. Blue. And he, uh,
ended up being a policeman. So when I came home Kali,
so that was about in seventh grade. So we're talking 6, 7,
8 years later when I was home for the weekend and,
and I was driving and he picked me up and I probably had a beer in a car or
something. And, you know, he, he actually, um,
let me go. But he picked me up again the same night.
So he took me down a second time and he put me in his office and the police
station when we talked for quite a while, we let me go too,
but you know,
just can't get away with it. I mean, there's just more rules regulations.
If people find out it's like, whoa, whoa. You know,
I think the good old days probably gave you a chance to actually realize things
better than you can today can actually get a second chance maybe.
And you know, that type of thing, catch.
Episodes of the Joe Rogan experience for free only on Spotify,
watch back catalog J R E videos on Spotify,
including clips easily seamlessly switch between video
and audio experience on Spotify.
You can listen to the JRE in the background while using other apps and can
download episodes to save on data costs. All for free.
Spotify is absolutely free.
You don't have to have a premium account to watch new JRE episodes.
You just need to search for the JRE on your Spotify app.
Go to Spotify now to get this full episode of the Joe Rogan.